The Statistical Likelihood of Jimmy McGill pulling 6 B's in a row

picked - 20, 29, 32, 39, 42, 51, 57, 61, 64, 68, 73

11 gone - 64 remaining

then:
B2 (15/64 chance) 
B4 (14/63)
B12 (13/62)
B7 ("oh, what are the odds? Four B's in a row.") (12/61)
B5 (rant about) (11/60)
another B (it's another freaking B - chicago sunroof rant) (10/59)
total -- cumulative product is 0.00006675614
or a 0.0066% chance

The Odds of Jimmy McGill Pulling 6 B's in a Row

*SPOILERS for Season One of Better Call Saul*

I'm on another rewatch of AMC's Better Call Saul, and this time, I noticed something that looked pretty unlikely in season one's finale, Marco. About ten minutes into the episode, we see our protagonist, Jimmy McGill, calling a game of bingo at a retirement home in an effort to promote his reputation with his client base in Albuquerque. Just before this, Jimmy went through a pretty ugly scene with his brother Chuck, who, after over a year of Jimmy's financial support, admitted he didn't believe Jimmy could ever revert from his petty crime habits. What leads to Jimmy's explosive narrative in the retirement home, indirectly, is his decision to follow up for every number he calls out with a word or name that starts with the letter of that number.

We watch Jimmy pull a B, a subtle reminder to him (and not so subtle of a reminder to ourselves) about the falling out with his brother. And then he pulls another B. And another after that. And then three more. With each successive B, we see him get more flustered as he's trapped himself with this highly unlikely but consistent reminder of his nagging brother who compares him and his law degree to a "chimp with a machine gun." He starts off calling out the B's casually enough-- "B-2! Just like the B2 bomber... B-4, another B! How about that, as in, 'Before too long, we're gonna have another winner.'" By the fifth, though, we can see him getting thoroughly aggravated-- "B-5 as in, 'Boy, this B thing is really starting to tick me off.'" And then, after the sixth and final B, Jimmy rants about what a Chicago sunroof is, how he was on trial for indecent exposure, and how he ended up in Albuquerque.

But in the middle of this, Jimmy asks, "what are the odds?" So, I set out to find out what the odds really were.

I combed through the scene and found the setup for when the B sequence began and, at that point, there were 11 numbers selected and none had been B's up to that point. The board also showed that the numbers go up to 75, so we can assume that 64 of 75 had been called so far.


jimmy pulls 6 b's in a row, a reminder of brother
rant
what were the odds of this? -> calculations 
next time you see some really unrealistic event on tv, think about this one




I'm working on a blog post right now where I'm trying to determine the statistical likelihood of a scene from AMC's Better Call Saul where the main character is calling out bingo at a retirement home and pulls 6 B's in a row, and every time he pulls a B it reminds him of this big fight he just got in with his brother, so naturally, he gets pretty upset by the sixth one and launches off into this big public rant.
I think just determining the odds of drawing six B's in a row assuming that no previous numbers were drawn is an easy calculation, because it's just (number of B's / total numbers) * (number of B's - 1 / total numbers - 1) * ... (number of B's - 6 / total numbers - 6). However, the issue here is that there are actually 11 numbers drawn before this sequence of 6 B's, and so my problem really becomes, "what are the odds of, at any point during this game of bingo, 6 B's in a row are drawn?" but i'm not really sure how to google this as it's kind of vague and not really easy to specify into something i'll find very easily online



projects -
rock paper scissors svm
fearlessly girl
ulti scheduler
chiptune player
